---
title: 'biofuels'
date: 2023-06-13
permalink: /posts/biofuels/
tags:
  - cool posts
  - category1
  - category2
---



biofuels
======

Biofuels are made from living things that have decayed over time. They are often produced from plants or from animal waste.

They are produced quicker than things like fossil fuels (eg. oil, natural gas) etc, which makes them more useful. 

They are oftenly broken down into things like ethanol and then converted to something useful like "bioethanol". 

## Bioethanol

Ethanol is one of the most versatile types of fuels. An alcohol, its use is enjoyed by many different industries. It is made via the fermentation of sugars that are made from:
 - wheat
 - corn
 - sugar beets
 - sugar cane
 - molasses
 - whiskey
 - beer

It is the most popular biofuel worldwide, especially in Latin America. 

## Biodiesel

Biodiesel is produced from oils or fats. You can use:
 - animal fats
 - vegetable oils
 - soy
 - rapeseed
 - mustard
 - sunflower
 - palm oil
 - and algae

It is the most common biofuel in Europe. Biodiesel is commonly used to power large vehiculars like trucks, trains and ships. By mixing it with normal fossil diesel, it can be used to fuel any diesel engine withouyt modification.

It has some major advantages over fossil diesel: firstly, it does not produce any artefacts or residue in the engine itself, which is good as it requires less maintenance. Secondly, it can be used as a lubricant for machine parts, also reducing wear and tear on components. Finally and crucially, it only produces 60% of the emissions that normal fossil diesel produces. This means that it can be used to be more climate-friendly while also still keeping the same equipment and engines currently used.
